Hello this is Kirill from four explode dot com.
And welcome back to the course on forex trading in today's tutorial we will continue trading on our
live real Forex account.
And today's actually going to be quite a different tutorial and that's because we're not going to open
a market order but rather we will open to pending orders on our account.
As you can see in front of us here we have the Eurodollar hourly timeframe and I've marked out some
findings that I have located on the chart.
So with the yellow lines this concentrate on the yellow lines to start with.
We've got a triangle marked up and we just triangle's previously on this course.
And as you remember triangle's mean that the market is kind of getting into a consolidation phase or
something that's going to happen just now in the market.
And so in this already time friend Eurodollar has been in this triangle formation for several days so
these periods separators indicate days and that's one two three four five six or five and a half days
or five full days.
The market has been in this triangle and as you can see there's no escape out of this triangled the
only way the market can go is either up or down can just continue the triangle because it's coming to
an end over here.
So and that's what we're going to take advantage of.
But before we get to that let's just have a look at how the Eurodollar has been moving in the past couple
of months.
So I'll zoom out a bit and if we go back you'll see here is another triangle that had occurred previously
this was in January of this year.
And as you can see the price was in a triangle for several days and then it burst out downwards I marked
it with a red line here where the burst occurred.
So that's a that's that triangle over here.
And then previously before that there was another triangle.
Once again the price was in a triangle for a while and then it burst down before that the price was
in a channel soldiers amount.
As you remember we also discussed channels and we used them in our trading quite a bit already.
The price was in the channel and then it crossed the border and burst down here.
The price was in a triangle and then burst out upwards.
But then so went down.
Also let's see if you can spot a channel right here.
I'll just mark it out so you can see a channel here.
It's changed to yellow
and there so as you can see the prices in the channel here then burst outwards downwards.
So there have been a couple of instances where the price was either in a channel or in a triangle and
there was a burst.
Another thing that you will notice is that currently we are in a downward trend.
And all of these both of these triangles that have already happened and this channel the most recent
one they all burst downwards.
So it is much more likely that this triangle's also going to burst downwards because we are in a downward
trend so the dollar is strengthening the euro is declining.
That's important to remember because that will tell us which trade is more riskier too.
Another thing is that even though this triangle here it burst out upwards the price still continued
downwards afterwards.
And that was because this temporary movement this upward movement was actually a retracement of the
overall downward trend that we can observe.
So if we zoom out even more you can see that the euro has been in a downward trend for quite some time
now.
And so too many ways lives now.
All right so that tells gives us a good indication that the downward trade is more reliable.
The upward trade is less reliable.
In fact you might not even want to conduct this upward trend or prepare it because it's it's quite quite
risky compared to the cell trait that will do both.
And in this situation and we'll manage our risks accordingly.
So we've gotto buy stop and sell stop ready.
As we discussed previously triangles generally tend to burst out for about half of their base.
And so if this orange line marks the base here then this is a copy of that same orange line.
Then half of it is about where this little orange line sticks out.
And same way here.
Half of it is about where this little orange line sticks out so it can burst further than that but can
burst just about that exact distance and that's where we will set out take profits so this cell stop
as we discussed in the tutorial on pending orders.
It'll be triggered once the price crosses the line and hopefully the price will keep going and then
it will trigger out take profits so we'll settle take profit actually a bit higher than this orange
line.
And for that buy stuff we'll set the taper off at a bit lower than or like the stop losses for the sell
stop will set the stop loss at the level of the Bicester border and for the buyer stop will set the
stop loss at the level of a sell stop order.
So that's all taken into consideration.
The last thing we have to go into account is our risks.
So to do that we will have to find out how many pips are in a stop loss and there's about 90 pips and
the stop loss.
So I'm just going to bring up the slides that allow us to calculate lots.
So I've got the formula up in front of us here for a sell order we're we'll risk about 10 percent of
our balance and that's about 10 percent of $659 about $66 will plug it into a formula.
Now all we have to do is enter the number of people in our Stop-Loss which is about 90 pips.
So that gives us 66 divided by 900 which is approximately zero point zero seven lots.
Now let's perform the same calculation but for the buy order we we're willing to risk less.
About half as much so 5 percent of our balance and that's about $33.
Let's plug that in and I'm doing this calculation thirty three divided by 900 and that's because the
distance of the stop loss is exactly the same.
And that gives us about zero point zero three six which is approximately 0.04 So let's put that in.
Zero point zero was.
So now let's create these orders.
We click and you order 30 Eurodollar volumes are a point 0 7 that's going to be our sell order sell
stop.
It's going to be a pending order we have to click that in the pending order we are going to choose a
sell stop the price is going to be one point 1 2 9 0.
The stop loss as we agree is 1 point 3 9 0 to take profit.
I've got to treat it down here so it's going to be one point 1 2 5 0 and comment on the number 5 sell
stop.
Just take everything very quickly.
Looks good.
And oh yes we can also set an expiry date for our stop loss.
So how about we set.
We'll give it two days or maybe even one day should be enough.
So that is that's today we set this day tomorrow at about the same.
Well not this time do we want to set.
Yeah let's give it just over one day.
So we'll place that click place.
That's our pending order placed.
It's hiding behind us sell stuff over here so we can.
Our trend line or here.
Actually I think I said the stop loss at the wrong price so this price should have actually been
18 or 19 and we'll just quickly correct that so if we go to trade and we modify this is how you can
modify pending orders and your stop loss should be just adjusted over here.
It's very simple could modify.
OK.
So the stop loss is not hiding behind the blue line.
And now we will conduct our Buy Stop order.
So pending order by stop one point 1 3 8 0 stop loss 1 point 1 2 9 0.
Take profitable.
I'm going to run down so it's one point 1 4 1 5 comments.
This is number five by stop
and expiry date.
Same thing.
Let it expire tomorrow place.
OK.
So let's just see if we can.
OK we caught we if you want to see the expiry date and you have to double click on the order and just
check expiry date.
Second of course the second or fourth are perfect.
So you just need to quickly double check everything here.
For instance I can see right away that I set the wrong volume for the Bicester order and I'm just going
to therefore delete this by slip order and reset it.
So zero point zero for
pending order by stop 1.1 3 8 0 stop loss 1 1 1 2 9 0 tape profit 1 point 1 4 1 5
5 by Stolpe comment actually expiry date check everything place Okay that should be done.
So that's our stealth sell stock that's how by stop.
Everything else looks OK.
So that was a good example of how you can quickly delete pending orders without any effect on that count
because they're actually not in the market they're not they'll really exist as market orders.
They're just an intention for you to buy or sell but you'll still see your deleted order here and you'll
see in the Commons you'll see that it says cancelled because you manually cancelled this particular
order.
OK so he's just going to leave that account for a couple days and see how all this plays out.
So either one of these orders or maybe even both will be triggered and maybe nothing will be triggered
if the price doesn't escape this trial and then the next one hop days.
I look for it see a mix of.
Until then happy trading